Instrucciones
Upload a cover letter as a separate file in the online system. The length limit is 1 page.
The cover letter should include the following information:
•	Summarize the study’s contribution to the scientific literature
•	Relate the study to previously published work

•	Specify the type of article (for example, research article, systematic review, meta-analysis, clinical trial)
•	Describe any prior interactions with PLOS regarding the submitted manuscript
•	Suggest appropriate Academic Editors to handle your manuscript (see the full list of Academic Editors)
•	List any opposed reviewers







Plos One
July, 2023

To whom it may concern:

I am writing to submit our research article entitled   “Quantum simulation of
Pauli channels and dynamical maps: algorithm and implementation” to be
considered for publication as a research article in PLOS One. 

In this article, we focus on one of the fundamental purposes of quantum
computers since their inception: simulating quantum systems. Specifically, we
propose and simulate on a quantum computer an algorithm for implementing
Pauli channels. These channels are transformations of qubit systems typically 
arising from noise affecting quantum devices (Flammia S. and Wallman J.,
Efficient estimation of Pauli channels, 2020). Pauli channels are examples of 
the evolution of open quantum systems, which have garnered interest due to 
their applications in the study of entanglement (Farías O.J. et al, 
Observation of the emergence of multipartite entanglement between a bipartite 
system and its environment, 2012) and dissipative processes 
(Barreiro J. et al, An open-system quantum simulator with trapped ions, 2011).

Moreover, we extend the algorithm to encompass Pauli channels dependent on a
parameter, which we refer to as Pauli dynamical maps. This extension leads us
to investigate quantum algorithms with parameter-dependent operations, known as
parametrized quantum circuits.  In this manuscript, we establish the
mathematical conditions necessary for implementing any parametrized operation
using a quantum circuit using only one parametrized single qubit operation. We
believe these findings will be of interest to readers of your esteemed journal.

We declare the manuscript’s originality and exclusivity for publication. In
addition, we have not had any prior interactions with PLOS regarding this
manuscript. In the event that our manuscript is chosen for review, we kindly
suggest Dr. Fabio Sciarrino as a suitable reviewer, given his background and
expertise to evaluate our findings. We have no objections to any other
potential reviewers.

Each named author has significantly contributed to the research and preparation
of this manuscript. Furthermore, the named authors have no conflicts of
interest to disclose.

Thank you for considering our work.


On behalf of all authors,
